O would some power the gift give us to see ourselves as others see us, it would from many
a blunder free us."
Well that famous quote from the Scottish poet Robert Burns acknowledges that it is impossible
always to see ourselves as others do.
Well that's why we need training.
That's why we need advice.
That's why we need counsel to help us to improve and to work on certain flaws that perhaps
we just can't see in ourselves.
Well what a wonderful opportunity.
You students at Gilead have had to receive focused spiritual training from brothers who
truly love you.
Now no doubt you've come to see yourself more clearly than you have ever seen yourself
before.
But you know that quote from Robert Burns can be understood in a different way too.
See maybe what we cannot see clearly in ourselves are all of the good qualities that we possess
or the potential that we have to be used by Jehovah in his service.
First Samuel chapter 16 and verse 7 says, man sees what appears to the eyes, but Jehovah
sees into the heart.
Well in seeing into your heart, Jehovah saw fit to draw you into a dedicated relationship
with him.
And since then he's entrusted you with various assignments in his service.
Now why?
Why did Jehovah do that?
What does he see in you?
What qualities?
What spiritual qualifications does he observe?
Well, we can't know all that Jehovah sees in you because we cannot see ourselves as
Jehovah sees us.
It's probably why so many of God's servants and Bible times were reluctant to accept challenging
assignments.
Now just think of some examples of this.
People who did not see the fine qualities in themselves that Jehovah could see.
For example, take Gideon.
Now in judges chapter 6, let's look at this, judges chapter 6 and verse 14, notice what
Jehovah said to Gideon.
He said, go with the strength you have and you will save Israel out of Midian's hand.
Is it not I who sent you?
But now how did Gideon react?
Verse 15, Gideon said, pardon me Jehovah, how can I save Israel?
Look, my clan is the least in Manasseh and I am the most insignificant in my father's
house.
Well, obviously Gideon could not see himself as Jehovah saw him.
What about Moses?
In Exodus chapter 4, when Jehovah assigned him to lead Israel out of Egypt, Moses was keenly
aware of all of his inadequacies.
In fact, when talking with Jehovah, he raised one objection after another.
He was Jehovah aware of the inadequacies that Moses had, of course.
Of course he was.
He also knew that Moses' brother Aaron was older and that he was a better speaker.
But Jehovah saw in Moses qualities of faith, unselfishness and meekness, qualities that
made Moses the right choice for the job.
What about Jeremiah?
When Jehovah commissioned him to serve as a prophet, do you remember what he said?
Let's look at it.
Jeremiah chapter 1, Jeremiah chapter 1, look at verse 6, Jeremiah says, Alasso sovereign
Lord Jehovah, I do not know how to speak for I am just a boy.
Well what did Jehovah say, okay, okay, Jeremiah, see if I find someone else.
Look at verse 7, Jehovah then said to me, do not say I am but a boy.
For you must go to all those to whom I send you and you should say everything that I command
you.
Why was Jehovah so confident that Jeremiah was the right choice for this special assignment?
Well of course, if you look at verse 8, Jehovah says, I am with you.
Now of course, that's the same thing that Jehovah said to Gideon.
It's the same thing he said to Moses.
In other words, because Jehovah was with them, they would be successful.
But there's another reason too.
You see what it says in verse 5, Jehovah says to Jeremiah, before I formed you in the womb,
I knew, isn't that interesting?
I knew you.
And before you were born, I sanctified you.
I made you a prophet to the nations.
Jehovah knew Jeremiah.
He saw in Jeremiah certain qualities that would make him an effective prophet with Jehovah's
help.
Well could Jeremiah see that in himself?
No.
He just had to trust in Jehovah's assessment.
Move forward and do what Jehovah asked him to do.
Well we have wonderful examples of this in our modern day too.
Brother John Booth was a faithful, humble brother.
He started an in full-time service in 1928.
Now in 1935, he was called to work at the factory at Bethel.
But now just after working for a few days, he was very surprised when Brother
Nor invited him to go on the road as a regional service director, what we would
perhaps call a circuit over here today.
Brother Nor explained there was a great need and that Brother Booth could be a big help
because of his experience as a pioneer.
But Brother Booth replied that he had never had a position in the congregation.
He had never given a talk, can you imagine?
And he had no training to do so.
But here's what Brother Nor said,
eloquent speakers are not what is needed.
Just someone who loves the service and will take the lead in it and will talk about service
at the meetings.
Brother Booth said, with misgivings, doubts and fears, but wanting to do Jehovah's will,
I agreed to try it.
Well, how did it turn out?
Brother Booth moved forward.
He spent his whole life in full-time service, later serving for more than 20 years as a member
of the governing body. When he finished his earthly course, the watchtower stated,
he was beloved for his profoundly humble and kind Christian personality.
Obviously, Jehovah saw something good in Brother John Booth.
Well, what do we learn from these examples?
Like Gideon and Moses and Jeremiah and Brother Booth,
we might feel inadequate for certain assignments.
And it's good that we're not overconfident or too self-reliant,
yet we don't want to go to the other extreme either.
If so, you see, we could begin to think, I could never be a pioneer.
I could never be a ministerial servant.
I could never be an elder.
I could never be a Bethelite.
I could never be a construction servant and on and on and on.
If we're given one of those assignments or some other one,
we could even hesitate to accept, give into fear.
But the fact is that we cannot fully see ourselves as Jehovah does.
How much better to make ourselves available and then move forward with the work that we're
given to do, looking to Jehovah to make up for whatever we may lack.
When I'll use students who are soon to be graduates,
we'll note out have a variety of assignments in the coming years.
Whatever those assignments are, move forward with full confidence in Jehovah.
Jehovah will be with you.
He'll give you everything that you need to be successful in accomplishing the work.
So, here's the question.
Can you see yourself as Jehovah sees you?
Well, perhaps to some extent, yes, but not completely.
So, be ready to listen to counsel and to make adjustments.
But also, when your good qualities and your good potential are noticed and you receive new
assignments, grab hold and move forward and may our wonderful God.
Jehovah always be with you and bless you as you do so.